If we're looking at this over a 5-year
horizon, I do not think that it's the
peak. I think there's just a lot of room
to run. This company's 300 billion of a
70 trillion market. So, it's kind of
hard to argue it's peak given that.
Hi everyone. I'm Gunjan Banerjee. And
I'm Tadas Demos. We're back with another
episode of Take on the Week. So, this
gold rally seems to have sputtered a
little bit. I mean Yes and no. Gold did
have one of its worst days in decade
plus. The price dropped by something 5
to 6% in one day of trading this past
week.
That said, it's still over $4,000 an
ounce, which was kind of the
Maginot Line of like, "Wow, gold is
really at an all-time high." So, I
wouldn't say that the gold trade has
unwound, but clearly it ran out of steam
given how aggressively it had been
trading recently.
I wonder to what extent the speculation
that's emerged around gold during its
big rally has impacted some of the
declines recently, right? You have
leveraged long and short ETFs. These are
ETFs that can turbocharge your exposure
to stocks or gold or bonds, you name it.
They've seen so many inflows recently.
Gold options volume hit a record, which
means that, you know, people are
speculating big time on the price. Well,
and that's what you would expect to see
in a speculative market. You would
expect to see kind of air pockets where
suddenly, you know, it drops because
there just isn't the same
inflow of buying or that kind of
marginal buyer kind of disappears for
the day or people take profits. You
know, this is what happens in bull
markets. Like you have aggressive
pullbacks sometimes on the way to a
higher place. I think the question still
remains whether or not what's happening
in gold is
part of this same speculative fervor
that we've been talking about in all
these other asset classes
or if there's something truly like
fundamental behind
the trade and whether it is part of a
trade that some people might call
debasement, debasement of the US
currency. Is it something anxiety about
credit risk in the markets that's
sending people to gold? Like what is it
that's driving it? I don't think that we
have necessarily agreement about what it
is. This worry about US assets isn't
quite resonating with me right now. When
you take a look at what's happened in
the Treasury market, right? We saw
yields on 10-year Treasury notes falling
to some of the lowest levels of the past
year. Stocks have done so well. It's
interesting that you're saying that,
Gunjan, because there's a big debate
about what exactly has been driving this
gold trade. And some people talk about
it like it's a market phenomenon. Other
people think that there are more
fundamental drivers. I wanted to point
to one comment we got on YouTube. This
person said what's really fundamentally
driving gold is de-dollarization. That
is central banks of other countries
moving away from their holdings backing
their own currencies as US dollars and
putting more of that into gold. That is
something that's been happening for a
long time and probably is one of the
fundamental drivers of where gold is
right now. I'm not sure why, given that
it's been happening for a long time,
that it's something that has driven gold
to where it is today, this 4200 an
ounce, $4100 an ounce level. That
is probably speculation driven, but
obviously I would agree that there are a
variety of drivers here and this is
probably one of them.
>> Yeah, I mean all this frenzy of activity
around gold in terms of speculation
around gold, right? In ETFs, options,
makes me wonder are people buying
physical gold? That's a really good
point and data from the World Gold
Council, which puts out reports tracking
not just the price of gold, but physical
buying of gold in a variety of forms,
has in past quarters suggested that gold
demand for gold bars, demand for gold
jewelry, has not necessarily been
keeping pace. That that's actually been
kind of on a downward trend. We'll see
what the third quarter data shows. That
data, you know, will be coming out in
the near future. But what it suggests is
that the high price of gold is actually
discouraging people from buying gold
things. And so, the flows into ETFs and
other more speculative kind of financial
bets on gold are really what's driving
the price action right now. Huh. So,
it's like the YOLO gold traders driving
>> [laughter]
>> driving the price action right now.
That's right. It's not people like
decking themselves selves out in
jewelry. It's more people decking
themselves out in in ETFs. Oh, I love
that. That's that's that's the driver.
You can't wear ETFs though, I don't
think. And I'm curious how this all
shakes out with the Fed meeting coming
up this week. That's right. We've got
another Fed meeting coming up this week.
Once again, the Fed is expected to cut
rates. So, that's not really the drama.
The drama is
around what the Fed says, just the
commentary about the economy, the
composition of the vote, and then also
what the Fed says about its balance
sheet. The Fed has been sort of draining
the economy of money for a while. Now,
the question is whether or not they want
to kind of reverse that and start to
sort of let more money slosh around in
the system as another way of easing.
That debate about quantitative
tightening
should be an interesting one. We also
have a ton of earnings in the coming
week. I mean, I thought Apple's move
recently was really quite interesting,
right? Like this is a stock that had
kind of lagged other tech stocks. It
hasn't been a big AI play. Hit a new
record recently. It looks like what's
been powering their move of late. They
moved into the second largest company by
market cap behind Nvidia overtaking
Microsoft, at least they had as of this
recording. And
what had been
powering that move was hopes for iPhone
sales. That that the latest iPhone
release is actually doing really well
and better than the last one.
And what's interesting about that is
that it's not an AI-related trade.
That's just a
more people are buying, you know, nice
expensive phones. Maybe that's an
economic indicator in its own right that
things are doing well enough that at
least the segment of people who buy
iPhones are doing so in big numbers and
suggests that that the tech stocks are
not only about AI, but also just about
tech companies doing well. I mean,
obviously AI is part and parcel of what
Apple does, but it's not the driving
force for them as it's been for others
like Oracle, Nvidia, obviously some of
the really big gainers of late.
I mean, it's totally become kind of like
a bellwether stock, right? About about
how the economy is doing. I'm excited to
hear your interview about Robinhood and
their earnings. I mean, the prediction
markets boom is well underway. I thought
it was really interesting to see the
National Hockey League sign agreements
to license its name to platforms like
Kalshi and Polymarket. So, you know,
these prediction market trades, which
everyone wondered, are they going to
stick around? Are they going to fizzle
after the election? Um they've stuck
around. Yeah, talk about bellwether
companies. I think people look at
Robinhood's earnings report
for essentially an update on what
investors are doing and thinking about
what kind of trading they're doing. But
also, Robinhood is just itself become a
very large company. Its stock went up
enough and it has become established
enough that it was added to the S&P 500
index this year. And so, now its
earnings are
really kind of I think a big deal for
the market. And given how much the stock
has risen this year, it's more than
tripled. I think there's a really
interesting debate about whether or not
that is it itself kind of an echo of
what's happening with sort of
speculative activity. To what extent
does that drive Robinhood? Or is
Robinhood just establishing itself as a
major financial services company? And
how big is their opportunity in not just
this market, but
in the years ahead. And to get at that
question, that bigger question about
Robinhood and also what it tells us
about what's going on in the markets
right now, we had a great conversation
this past week with
Christian Bolu. He's a senior
analyst at Autonomous Research. He has
been looking closely at Robinhood's
stock and Robinhood as a company. He's
put out a series of notes about the
company's potential and long-term
future. And we had a great conversation
with him, which we're going to get to
right after the break.
Welcome back. We're here with Christian
Bolu. He is a senior research analyst at
Autonomous Research. Christian, welcome
to the show. Thank you, Tadas. And
thanks for having me on.
So,
I'm sure that there's a portion of our
audience that sees something like
Robinhood Markets, their stock more than
tripling this year.
They see that and they think, "Well,
that's a bubbly company in a bubbly
market." But you recently spent a ton of
time looking at the company. You talked
to many executives. You published five
separate research notes,
deep dive, classic deep dive into
Robinhood. And I think you came away
with a different impression that there's
more going on here. Correct. We we went
down to the headquarters in San
Francisco. Met essentially the entire
management team. It's fascinating
discussion.
What people forget is that wealth
management, generally speaking, is
is very demographically aligned. So, if
you think about Schwab, grew very fast
in the uh with the boomers. Um E*TRADE
was with Gen X. And really um Robinhood
has captured millennials and Gen Zs,
which is a very big population. Um um
and and that's a big engine of growth.
So,
it seems like a big part of your thesis
is that Robinhood is now a broader
business beyond trading. They now offer
retirement accounts.
Uh they have a credit card
uh and a variety of trading services.
How much of that though is drawing
people in by making them interested in
trading and speculation? So, you know,
if you look at Robinhood, for example,
the the
its its actual account growth [snorts]
is you know, not spectacular. So, in
terms of new customers coming onto the
platform, it's not some hyper growth
platform. A lot of it tends to be new
assets coming onto the platform. People
bringing actual money, not just signing
up. Exactly. So, if you look at new
asset growth, it's anything from 20 to
40% of existing assets. That's pretty
pretty healthy. Think about traditional
player like a Schwab, that's more like
5%. So, what it's telling me is that
existing customers
are looking at the value proposition at
Robinhood and bringing more onto the
platform. Talked about things like
retirement accounts. It always makes me
laugh that
one of the fastest growing products of
Robinhood
is good old-fashioned high-yield savings
accounts. Now, clearly
um it's still the growth of the business
from a the monetization of the business
is still
it's still very much trading oriented.
>> So, how can they afford to pay a higher
yield on cash than other platforms do?
And I know Robinhood has long had an
ethos of
basically offering things for free. One
thing they try and do, and obviously
they charge a subscription fee for
Robinhood Gold.
>> Correct.
Is that enough to allow them to make
money on these other product offerings
like paying this high cash yield? How
does the economics work for the business
now?
>> The way they're able to
drive profitability is a couple of
things. One is margin lending, um
options which are very profitable. They
do have a crypto business. Now, crypto
is um a very very profitable business as
it sits today. You know, Robinhood makes
something like 50 to 60 basis points,
about half a percent on each dollar
notional of crypto traded.
In equities, they make about one basis
point. I wanted to just call out
something that was in your note that I
thought kind of described this
interestingly, which was the you called
it the cyclicality versus TAM. And for
those who aren't, you know, readers of
this stuff all the time, TAM is for
total addressable market. So, in other
words, Robinhood can take advantage of a
cycle. Everybody's trading right now,
they're trading. But there's also the
size of the brokerage industry.
>> Let's talk about TAM first. The reason
why people get excited about the company
is
just the size of the potential market is
so huge. Just to put some numbers around
this, Robinhood today has client assets
of
roughly $300 billion,
which is sounds like a lot of money, but
it's absolutely tiny. And $300 billion,
like you said, is big, but that's really
only like 5% of Schwab's assets, right?
>> Correct. It's absolutely tiny. So,
Schwab has north of $11 trillion in
assets, and
and that's total assets, and the total
wealth
>> [snorts]
>> in the US in terms of assets is about 70
trillion. So, if you look at Robinhood,
they really are just getting started at
300 300 billion. And where why people
get excited is if you look at the rate
of growth, they're clearly taking new
market share and in a very big market
with a ton of innovation, the brand
value, etc. And we've seen this playbook
before.
Uh if you go back again to the '90s, it
was Schwab and E*TRADE.
>> itself, right? Was the was the disruptor
back then.
And today Schwab is
basically the biggest wealth manager, at
least from a public market perspective.
They're bigger than Morgan Stanley,
Merrill Lynch, all the banks. They're
much bigger than them. Even though maybe
Robinhood is still in that disruptor
phase or is is in the early innings, you
know, as as as my colleague Spencer
Jacob pointed out in in his column
recently, um you know, the market caps
of these companies aren't that far
apart.
Has the market kind of gotten ahead of
itself? Is it already pricing in
perfection for Robinhood at this point?
>> I'll unpack your your question into two.
The fundamentals
and the and the valuation, right?
So, as I mentioned, you know, Robinhood
is 3 to 5% of Schwab's assets,
but they're about 15 to 20% of revenues.
Right? So, if you think about that
>> So, more more revenue per dollar of
assets.
>> Exactly. Exactly. So, so um Robinhood
definitely makes more money per dollar
of assets, and it's a bunch of things.
They they have more crypto, they have
a more active trader skew. They do more
from an active trader perspective. Just
put some numbers out there and and hope
I don't get too technical here. But if
you look at the
return on assets, the revenue as a
percent of assets. At Robinhood, that
number is between 1 and 1/2% and 2%. So,
roughly speaking, on every dollar of
assets, they make about 1 and 1/2 to 2%.
On Schwab, it's about 20 basis points to
30 basis points.
>> Which is 0.2, 0.3%.
>> Exactly. And then on on an active trader
platform like Interactive Brokers, it's
about 1%, right? So, the real measure is
more like against an Interactive Broker
than a Schwab because, you know, the
Schwab client base is obviously
skewed a little older, a little
long-term investing. They're not trading
as much, so the the monetization is
naturally a little bit lower. Um so, the
question is the gap between like
Interactive Brokers and a and a
and a
and Robinhood. And again, that tends to
come from things like crypto, prediction
markets, the gold accounts. All that
tends to drive incremental monetization.
In your notes, you had a an eye-catching
number, which is you called it a bull
case price target. And
that was over $300 per share for
Robinhood. Now, it trades at around $140
per share these days. How should people
think about the potential for for for
Robinhood to reach that level? Yeah, so
inherently with these sort of like
high-growth big-time stories,
to believe in them, you have to think
about the long term, right? How big can
the company be? Now, our base case price
target is more like $120. So, we're
basically saying if you kind of run rate
the current growth rates, it's probably
fairly valued. But if you start to think
about what this company could be over
time, you start to pull in
assumptions around them growing faster,
um getting more of that higher net worth
bigger client base,
growing the prediction markets business
bigger, building a banking franchise,
and become the primary account to to um
to folks. It starts to get more
interesting, right? And
>> So, if they if they execute on what they
say they're doing, that's kind of where
they could get if everything goes well.
>> If everything goes well. All right, and
that's a key thing is if everything goes
well, cuz the markets have to cooperate
with you as well, right? You have to
assume that you don't have a big crash,
another 2022 type scenario again. So,
the markets have to be
you know,
help you along, which is why we call it
a bull case. Now, we put a 25%
probability on that in our price target
to get to where we think the stock
should trade now. So, we're basically
saying, you know, that sort of like $320
um bull case scenario, we're giving them
a 25% chance of hitting that, you know,
which we think is fair. These things are
hard to
you know, put put a you know, be be
super precise on, but I think it gives
you a sense of like the potential.
>> One of the businesses that Robinhood's
in that that I don't know, I'm having
trouble kind of wrapping my head around
is the prediction markets business. It's
new, it's kind of early days. You put
some interesting numbers around it. You
mentioned like based on the volume of
trading recently that that if you
assumed they were getting like a cent
per contract, it was like a $250 million
dollar business today. And then, you
know, you talked about in the future,
you know, you could see a kind of a
a prediction market volume of like $50
billion just kind of for for the market.
Could that be like a major revenue
source for them in in the future? Now,
if you look at sports betting, that's
been a big boost to trade to trade
volumes in prediction markets. There are
like a lot of advantages to what they
do. There are some regulatory, shall we
say, questions around the business, and
that has to all be ironed out. But as we
stand today, you know, prediction
markets are feel like they're here to
stay. You've seen the traditional
players come into them. So, CME, for
example, which is the big um exchange
where a lot of derivatives get traded
on, they are partnering with FanDuel to
build a market there.
Um you saw another company,
it's called ICE. They own
the New York Stock Exchange. They took a
big stake in a company called Polymarket
to also build that. So, I do think it
probably over time could be bigger than
just traditional sports sports betting
because of the incremental
sort of markets that it touches.
And so, when Robinhood reports earnings,
what do you think we'll learn just kind
of about where we are in the markets
these days?
>> So, remember we already have
a bunch of retail brokers that have
already reported, likes of Interactive
Brokers and Charles Schwab. So, we have
a sense of already what the market's
like in terms of just
retail sentiment, and I think Robinhood
probably confirms that on their
earnings. We'll we'll probably see a
good amount of growth in products that
tell you customers or the retail
investor is feeling confident.
>> So, example will be margin lending. So,
as you remember what margin lending is,
you're essentially borrowing money
to buy stocks. You don't do that unless
you think the markets are going up.
The other product I tend to look at is
um
uh securities lending, which is um
ties very well into the IPO market. The
bigger the IPO market, the bigger that
product tends to be.
Um I think you'll see really strong
growth there. And then also just like
again, what we call organic growth,
which is just customers bringing assets
onto the onto the platform, which for me
is probably the most important metric.
And I think you'll probably see solid
solid flows there as well. So, I think
all in, it will probably confirm that
um
we're in a very bullish market for
retail investing. All right, we're going
to take a quick break, and when we come
back, one last question for Christian
Bolu.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back. We've got one last
question for Christian Bolu.
Christian, a lot of people think that
the stock market is in a bubble. And
people who trade through Robinhood have
probably played some role in that buying
a lot of stocks themselves.
Have they pushed Robinhood itself to
kind of the top of the cycle?
Is this is this the peak for a stock
like that?
Well,
with this question, there's always
timeline always matters, right? Um
I think again, given our bull case
scenario, if we're looking at this over
a 5-year horizon, I do not think that
it's the peak. I think there's just a
lot of room to run. This company's 300
billion of a 70 trillion market. So,
it's kind of hard to argue it's peak
given that those statistics.
That being said, I'm I'm well aware that
um a lot of things are going right just
now. The valuation is
um
you know, twice the average retail
broker, if you think about them on an
EBITDA multiple valuation. So, I think
you know, one has to be cognizant of
that. But certainly on a long-term
basis, I do not think it's at its peak.
All right. Well, we'll check back in 5
years. In 5 [laughter] years.
See see see see how things are going. Uh
Christian, thanks so much for for
joining us.
>> Awesome. That was great. Thank you very
much, Taylor. Appreciate it.
>> [music]
[music]